Each study ends up being a leaprog to
the next one to the next one to the next
one. So we get a better understanding of
human physiology, a better understanding
of human performance and how to optimize
human performance and especially and
this is what I'm looking at and solely
focused on getting the people who are
not genetically gifted to put on muscle
like they are genetically gifted.
[Music]
My name is John Jquish. I am a doctor of
biomedical engineering. And today I'm
going to talk about my PhD experience
and uh really what I got out of doing my
PhD in biomedical engineering and how it
applies to my career and the business
that I'm operating right now. Let's go
back in time uh to right around 2006.
I uh I had developed the osteo strong
devices. So these are devices that put
axial meaning this is the axis of a
bone. So axial force compressing the
bone uh so that we can stimulate an
upregulation of minerals going into the
bone that get retained and become part
of the bone matrix. So uh this was um
started out as a project where uh to
treat my mother's osteoporosis. So my
mother was diagnosed and as I read about
this I said mom I I really uh don't
think you should take the medications
for osteoporosis. They have some some
pretty bad side effects. And I think
there's a a better way. like this is
just a deconditioning of bone and
anything that is deconditioned can
become reconditioned. So why don't we
focus on that? And uh you know she
reluctantly said okay because she didn't
want to take the medications. Uh
so in doing
this develop the devices that are now uh
robotic so the sort of robotic arms
close in on the human body and put you
in the optimized position and it
remembers for each user account at all
these osteior locations. And so as soon
as you log in, the machine sort of
closes in right to where you're at that
like for the upper extremity pressing
movement 120 degree angle of inclusion
back of the hand of the line with the
clavicle. So I developed these things
and then I realized I needed to present
this in an academic manner. And so the
best way to do that is to go and do my
PhD, study my own invention and document
what's going on with my own invention,
bring in others who are not biased like
as an inventor I would be and work with
them so that I present in a very
unbiased manner how the technology
works.
Fortunately, the principles of
osteiogenic loading, which is what I
named the therapy, all those principles
were already the principles of how you
build bone mass. In fact, the laws of
mechanuction were written in
1895 by Dr. Julius Wolf, who looked at
people who jump were jumping off of
carts that they were loading. Like this
is like literally these people were in
shipping in the 1800s. And so they would
jump in and out of the cart and because
of that load exposure from hitting the
ground every time they built incredible
bone masses. So what Dr. Wolf would do
is after they would die, he got he got
them to sign an agreement that he he got
the cadaavver. He would saw into the
bone and then do high resolution
photography on the cross-section of
these bones. And these bones became very
powerful. So, we've known for over 100
years that huge forces going through the
bone mass will elicit a change. The
challenge of that was that these huge
forces are forces that are well beyond
what we see in weightlifting. For
example, it has now been determined as
of 2012 that exposing load to uh not
only just the the femur but the top of
the femur and the hip joint, that's the
most important place for you to load
because that's where the mortality
related fractures come from. So if you
have a hip fracture later in life, in
fact after the age of 50, you have a 50%
chance of death if you have a hip
fracture within one year based on the
complications. So what happens is
somebody breaks their hip, they go to
the hospital, it takes a lot of body
resources to heal that fracture, they
don't always have those resources and
then while they're waiting to heal and
they're in the hospital because they
can't move around, fluid starts
collecting in their lungs, they get
pneumonia and then they die of the
complications. So this process actually
ends as many lives as breast cancer
which is completely crazy.
So after studying all this, developing
the technology, I thought, okay, I'm
going to I'm going to make
a a big change for the world by
launching these devices and getting it
all over the world. So this osteiogenic
loading, like I said, I I called it
osteoggenic loading. This is basically
an adaptation of my PhD dissertation,
which is on drj.com, doc, the
letterj.com. You can read a PDF version
or you can buy it on Amazon. But I do do
me a favor and do yourself a favor and
just download it for free from from my
website because this is not an exciting
book. This is the opposite of exciting.
In fact, it's incredibly boring. But it
is the scientific background to why I
did all the things I did to launch this
technology so that medical professionals
can read the book and understand, oh, I
should send my patients to this. There's
very little risk of injury. uh there's
always a risk of injury with any
physical medicine intervention you're
doing, but it's a very low risk and the
reward is very high because you really
can recover lost bone mass. So through
the PhD process, the most important
thing and I think a lot of people kind
of wonder like why would I go and do my
PhD after inventing the thing? Well, the
reason was I needed to be able to
communicate how it worked in an academic
manner. And if you you follow other
influential people uh who write papers
like Menoh Henzelman's or Dr. Milo Wolf,
when you look at their papers, you don't
just fall out of bed one day and write a
paper like that. You got to understand a
lot about
statistics. not just how to do the
statistics, but what they actually mean
and how meaningful they are in a larger
conversation about the subject. Because
I think sometimes people get distracted.
They see one study and they say, "Okay,
how does this study change my training
or change my nutrition or change my
life?" That's not really the way to look
at it. uh each individual study is an
experiment where they did one thing to
one group and did another thing to
another group and then we look at the
two differences typically what what
they're doing. Uh sometimes you can use
as a control population data that has
previously been published or or
whatever. So they're not all set up
exactly the same, but every study is
really an
experiment with a particular group of
people and it doesn't necessarily
reflect on the entire population. And I
think people get a little bit lost in
that and going through that PhD
experience, I understood that better
than I had even originally understood
it. sort of you want to take a new study
and just consider it in the larger
picture as opposed to really taking one
study and saying okay this this is it
none of them are this is it moments
sometimes meta analyses are like that
but sometimes there can be problems with
those too and so you need to be able to
identify the
problems you need to understand what
statistical tests are being run in these
studies because Some of the times
somebody will do an analysis of
variance statistical test but that
wasn't even the right statistical test
based on the data that's being
presented. And a lot of physicians don't
know like uh you know you do a Spearman
road test or analysis of variance
they're two very different tests and
they're testing for different things but
a lot of physicians will just look for
statistical significance and not if the
right test was used. So I think doing
the biomedical engineering PhD enabled
me to understand this be a bit of a
statistician and be able to read
research and put it together into a
larger argument which helped get
Osteorrong around the world. And I I've
mentioned it before we have uh 300
locations in 15 different countries. So
the clinics are all over the place and
they're very successful. Over a million
people treated. That's the uh the
osteiogenic loading
devices. But all of this
background was totally required for me
to
see why variable resistance was the best
for our training. And so really the most
important stuff I learned was outside of
the structured PhD
program because it was seeing what
happens to the human body through
through the study of this what happens
to the bone mass and also while at the
same time because of the way we were
engaging the body in this bone
density type therapy it was very obvious
that we're missing out on stimulating
the body like we could with regular
weight training. Because with regular
weight training, you pick a weight that
you can only handle in your weakest
position, which is kind of guaranteed
not that great of a stimulus. Now, I
always saw myself as a non-responder to
weight training. I lifted weights for
years, got basically nothing out of it
uh since then. So I mean I I graduated
high school in 1995. Uh so in the late
90s there was there's not not a lot of
literature about non-responders. Since
then there has been some. And I think
the one caveat that I didn't see coming
was sometimes non-responders do respond
but to much higher volume. I didn't know
that. Uh, so I I think there are some
people who if they just keep grinding
away and do more sets than most people,
they can actually elicit a response from
weight training. But the problem is with
the higher volume approaches, you're
looking at cumulative joint irritation
and sometimes damage. And cumulative
means it doesn't really get better. It
just gets progressively worse and worse
and worse and worse. And uh one of my
examples I I I do to people whenever I
go to some lecture about you know your
physical training whatever I I look at
the guys with the I I imagine have the
biggest bench press and I pick them out
of the audience. I go, "Hey, you you
look like you have a big bench press."
And the guy says, "Yeah, sure." He says,
"Do me a favor. Do this. Stick your arm
up." And you know, it's like, uh uh I I
I don't really have that range of
motion, right? Cuz you've destroyed the
joint. And very strong people often have
this issue where so much cumulative
joint damage has happened that their
shoulders hurt all the time, no matter
what they do. And so it shaped. So this
is where like real world experience
started shaping what I was writing for
my next book which was weightlifting is
a waste of time to talk about physical
training and
how anybody can become one of the best
of the best with variable resistance as
their training method as opposed to
standard weights. So really in summary
what did I get out of my PhD program?
the ability to communicate in an
academic manner. And that's that's what
people should look for uh if you really
want to get good at writing papers and
presenting your argument so that other
scientists can see what you're doing and
and this is the ultimate goal. They can
see what you're doing and they can
create other studies that leverage off
of what was learned from your study. So
each study ends up being a leaprog to
the next one to the next one to the next
one. So we get a better understanding of
human physiology, a better understanding
of human performance and how to optimize
human performance and especially and
this is what I'm looking at and solely
focused on getting the people who are
not genetically gifted to put on muscle
like they are genetically gifted. If
this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.